Division of Work. Specialization allows the individual to build up experience, and 
to continuously improve his skills.Thereby he can be more productive.

Authority. The right to issue commands, along with which must go the balanced
responsibility for its function.

Discipline. Employees must obey, but this is two-sided: employees will only 
obey orders if management play their part by providing good leadership.

Unity of Command. Each worker should have only one boss with no other
conflicting lines of command.

Unity of Direction. People engaged in the same kind of activities must have 
the same objectives in a single plan.This is essential to ensure unity and
coordination in the enterprise. Unity of command does not exist without
unity of direction but does not necessarily flows from it.

Subordination of individual interest (to the general interest). Management 
must see that the goals of thefirms are always paramount.

Remuneration. Payment is an important motivator although by analyzing a 
number of possibilities, Fayol pointsout that there is no such thing as
a perfect system.

Centralization (or Decentralization). This is a matter of degree depending 
on the condition of the business andthe quality of its personnel.

Scalar chain (Line of Authority). A hierarchy is necessary for unity of
direction. But lateral communication is also fundamental, as long as 
superiors know that such communication is taking place. Scalar chain refers to
the number of levels in the hierarchy from the ultimate authority to 
the lowest level in the organization. It should not be over-stretched
and consist of too-many levels.

Order. Both material order and social order are necessary. The former 
minimizes lost time and useless handling of materials. The latter 
is achieved through organization and selection.

Equity. In running a business a ‘combination of kindliness and 
justice’ is needed. Treating employees well is important to achieve equity.

Stability of Tenure of Personnel. Employees work better if job security 
and career progress are assured to them. An insecure tenure and a high
rate of employee turnover will affect the organization adversely.

Initiative. Allowing all personnel to show their initiative in some way 
is a source of strength for the organization.
Even though it may well involve a sacrifice of ‘personal vanity’
on the part of many managers.

Team Spirit (Esprit de Corps). Management must foster the morale of its 
employees. He further suggests that:“real talent is needed to coordinate
effort, encourage keenness, use each person’s abilities, and reward each 
one’s merit without arousing possible jealousies and disturbing harmonious
relations.”
