Scientific management concept is one of the principles 
of management and is also known as classical theory. 
This principle is propounded by Fredrick Winslow 
Taylor (F.W Taylor) – the father of management.
He noticed that there were much disorder and wastage 
of human as well as other resources at work place. 
The managers and staffs had no concept about 
systematic and efficient performance of task. 
And all were following traditional ways of doing 
work. So he tried to remove these problems 
through the development of new concept. Thus, 
the scientific management concept was developed.

Contributions of F.W Taylor
While working in Midvale Company as a manager Taylor
observed that employees were not performing 
as per their capacity of productivity. And he 
considered that this condition was occurring because

of no care towards the waste. Taylor worked towards
the experiments at his work place to increase 
the worker’s efficiency so that maximum output could
be achieved by utilizing effort at maximum level.

1.   Scientific task setting:- Taylor observed that 
the management does not know exactly the works –
pieces of work- volume of works- which are to be 
performed by the workers during a fixed period of 
time- which is called working day. In a working day 
how much work is to be domed by a worker but be 
fixed by a manager and the task should be set every 
day. The process of task setting requires 
scientific technique. To make a worker do a quantity 
of work in a working day is called scientific task setting.


2.   Differential payment system:- under this system, 
a worker received the piece rate benefit which will 
attract the workers to work more for more amount of 
wages and more incentives would be created to 
raise the standardization of output to promote the 
workers to produce more and perform more task 
than before and utilize waste time to earn more wages.


3.   Reorganization of supervision:- concepts of 
separation of planning and doing and functional foreman
ship were developed. Taylor opines that the workers 
should only emphasize in planning or in doing. There
should be 8 foremen in which 4 are for planning and 
4for doing. For planning they were route clerk, instruction
cord clerk, time and cost clerk and disciplinarian. 
And for doing they were speed boss, gang boss, repair boss
and inspector.


4.   Scientific recruiting and training:-staffs and 
workers should be selected and employed on scientific basis.
Management should develop and train every workers by 
providing proper knowledge and training to increase their
skills and make them effective


5.  Economy:- efficient cost accounting system should 
be followed to control cost which can minimize the wastage
and thoroughly reduced and thus eliminated.


6.  Mental revolution:- Taylor argued that both management
and workers should try to understand each other instead
of quarreling for profits and benefits which would 
increase production, profit and benefits.
