Science is a systematic body of knowledge pertaining to a specific field
of study that contains general facts which explains a phenomenon. It 
establishes cause and effect relationship between two or more variables 
and underlines the principles governing their relationship. These principles 
are developed through scientific method of observation and verification 
through testing.

1. Universally acceptance principles - Scientific principles represents 
basic truth about a particular field of enquiry. These principles may be 
applied in all situations, at all time & at all places. E.g. - law of
gravitation which can be applied in all countries irrespective of the time.

2. Experimentation & Observation - Scientific principles are derived through
scientific investigation & researching i.e. they are based on logic. E.g. 
the principle that earth goes round the sun has been scientifically proved.

3. Cause & Effect Relationship - Principles of science lay down cause and effect
relationship between various variables. E.g. when metals are heated, they are
expanded. The cause is heating & result is expansion.

4. Test of Validity & Predictability - Validity of scientific principles can be
tested at any time or any number of times i.e. they stand the test of time.
Each time these tests will give same result. Moreover future events can be
predicted with reasonable accuracy by using scientific principles. E.g. 
H2 & O2 will always give H2O.

Management as art :
Art implies application of knowledge & skill to trying about desired results. 
An art may be defined as personalized application of general theoretical 
principles for achieving best possible results. Art has the following characters -

1. Practical Knowledge: Every art requires practical knowledge therefore 
learning of theory is not sufficient. It is very important to know practical
application of theoretical principles. E.g. to become a good painter, the
person may not only be knowing different colour and brushes but different 
designs, dimensions, situations etc to use them appropriately.

2. Personal Skill: Although theoretical base may be same for every artist, 
but each one has his own style and approach towards his job. 

3. Creativity: Every artist has an element of creativity in line. That
is why he aims at producing something that has never existed before
which requires combination of intelligence & imagination. 

4.Perfection through practice: Practice makes a man perfect. Every
artist becomes more and more proficient through constant practice.
Similarly managers learn through an art of trial and error initially
but application of management principles over the years makes them
perfect in the job of managing.

5.Goal-Oriented: Every art is result oriented as it seeks to achieve 
concrete results. In the same manner, management is also directed 
towards accomplishment of pre-determined goals. Managers use various 
resources like men, money, material, machinery & methods to promote 
growth of an organization.
